Platform independent tools for working with Lytro LFP files
===========================================================

Lytro has not announced much about their file formats other than that they
have software for OS X and will have Windows supported in 2012.  To enable 
support for other platforms, it will be useful to develop open source software
to process their files.

As no raw capture files from the Lytro camera are yet available, there is not
much to do on that front.  In the meantime, the compressed files used for web
display are available, and can be parsed.

.lfp web file format
--------------------

The Lytro desktop app exports compressed representations of the light field
captured by the Lytro camera to reduce file times and rendering requirements
for web display.  The .lfp files are simply a set of JPEG files representing
the unique visually interesting sections of the light field.  That is, a set in
which each image shows a different area in focus.  It appears to do so
dynamically, picking the minimum number of images necessary to show all
*focusable* objects in narrow depths of field.

These images are stored along with their estimated depths and a depth lookup
table for the image.  This allows for HTML5 and Flash applications in which the
user clicks on a region of the image, the value of that region is looked up, 
and the depth image closest to that value is displayed.

The file itself is formatted as follows.  First, a header:

    # magic 12 byte header (LFP)
    89 4C 46 50 0D 0A 1A 0A 00 00 00 01
    # 4 byte length (0, since there is nothing in this section)
    00 00 00 00
    
After this are a number of sections.  The data in the first is plain text
metadata describing the resolutions and sha1 hashes of the images and depth
lookup table stored later in the image.  The second section contains the depth
lookup table stored as 4 byte floats.  Each section after that is a jpg image.
The sections are formatted as follows:
    
    # magic 12 byte header (containing a type like LFM or LFC)
    89 4C 46 4D 0D 0A 1A 0A 00 00 00 00
    # 4 byte length, not including header, sha1, or null padding
    00 00 07 A7
    # 45 bytes of sha1 hash as hex in ascii
    73 68 61 31 ...
    # 35 bytes of null padding
    00 00 00 00 ...
    # the data of length previously specified
    7B 22 70 69 ...
    # 0 or more bytes of null padding
    00 00 00 00 ...
    
lfpsplitter
-----------

lfpsplitter is a commandline tool that reads in a .lfp file and splits it into
a plaintext metadata file, a plaintext listing of the depth lookup table, and
the component jpgs.

    make
        gcc -O3 -Wall    -c -o lfpsplitter.o lfpsplitter.c
        gcc -o lfpsplitter lfpsplitter.o  -O3 -Wall 

    ./lfpsplitter ./butterfly.lfp 
        Saved ./butterfly_metadata.txt
        Saved ./butterfly_depth.txt
        Saved ./butterfly_0.jpg
        Saved ./butterfly_1.jpg
        Saved ./butterfly_2.jpg
        Saved ./butterfly_3.jpg
        Saved ./butterfly_4.jpg
        Saved ./butterfly_5.jpg
        Saved ./butterfly_6.jpg

